# 001.010 The Introduction - The Interest Areas

The domain material of the course; the areas of study, are separated into a number of main categories. These categories align with the topic areas of the NASA ARSET training program nd are named as follows:

* <span style="color:darkorange">Terrestrial Ecology and Biodiversity</span>
* <span style="color:darkorange">Marine Environment</span>
* <span style="color:darkorange">Water Resource Management</span>
* <span style="color:darkorange">Health and Air quality</span>
* <span style="color:darkorange">Urban Planning and Sustainability</span>
* <span style="color:darkorange">Agro-Food Production Sustainability</span>
* <span style="color:darkorange">Disaster Management</span>
* <span style="color:darkorange">Climate Monitoring</span>

The **water resource management** area of interest addresses the topics of maagement of water resources for human consumption and agriculture porposes.

The **health and air quality** area of interest is concerned with the maintaining healthy environments and reducing air pollution.

The **agro-food sustainability** area of interest is concerned with maintaining sustainable food production systems.

The **terrestrial ecology and biodiversity** area of interest is concerned with the monitoring and conservation of a healthy ecosystems and maintaining natural biodiversity in eco-systems,

The **marine environment** area of interest is concerned with the monitoring and conservation of the health of marine life and its ecosystems as well as the geophysical processes.

The **disaster management** area of interest is concerned with the monitoring the environment from the point of view of risk reduction, mitigation and adaptation of local situations to prevent disasters from occurring (prevention), being aware of risk levels (mitigation) and preparing (adaptation). This area addresses natural localized disasters such as flooding, wildfires, earth quakes and meteorological events.

The **climate change risk management** area of interest is concerned with the monitoring the environment from the point of view of risk reduction, mitigation and adaptation of super-regional and global scales. In this case we can think of droughts, global warming and as well as the potential impacts on society of such long-term regional changes.

