# 001.003 The Introduction - Learning Objectives

The objective for this program and the materials is that on completion the student will have practical expertise and understanding of the field of satellite remote sensing research as well as a out-of-the-box executables of computing resources; Python code and Jupyter Lab notebooks that will illustrate how to get started in this field of satellite based remote sensing and climate change monitoring and analysis.

The material is based on superb training materials and courseware from the NASA ARSET program as well as the EUMETSAT training program. The author's experiece with this material however is that while the content is of the highest quality and highly relevant in today's situation, there is a high barrier to actually starting one's own journey into these fields. The course materials in for instance the ARSET program illustrate how the experts in the field (professional researchers in academia and agencies) apply the technologies to answer interesting questions. What is lacking is material that jumpstarts a student to pickup these interesting question for him or herself and start applyting the knowledge learned from the courses and trainings.

So the ARSET capabilities building succeeds on the theoretical and methodological level but falls short on the practical level; especially for the citizen scientist and interest layman.

So the objectives of the course are two fold:

* in alignment with the ARSET/EUMETSAT trainings and courses provide practical explanations of how research and inquiries in the field could be done.
* out-of-the-box sample working software and datasets that will jumpstart students in answering their own questions in the field of satellite remote sensing and climate change research. 
* a material organization that supoprts customization to local areas of interest similar to the Pacific Northwest eco-region approach on which the course is built.

The course curriculum aims to provide a holistic view of an eco-region such that all major ecological and societal processes can be studied together. For this reason the PNEOM course material focusses on the Pacific Northwest region since it has many different biomes and eco-regions in a relatively small geographic region.

To list some of the biomes and geological characteristics:

* High mountains regions and volcanos: The Cascades mountain range and various strat volcanoes are unique in the US continental area.
* Large river basin discharging in pacific ocean: the Columbia basin is one of the countries biggest river basins.
* A number of large river systems discharging in the countries biggest inland sea/estuary system: river system and the Puget Sound.
* Many different types of forest types and related ecosystem, some of which unique and of global relevance.
* Many different eco-systems; ranging from high-mountains, temporate rainforests, arid deserts and fluvial systems.
* A number of large cities and associated urban development processes.
* The region has to deal with extensive climate change related dangers and risks such as wildfires, pest related issues and floodings, to (potentially extremely heavy) earthquakes, tetonic subsidence events and vulcanic activities. 

All these processes play out within an area of a few 100 by a few 100 miles. This is an extremely rich set of study topics and because of this a great opportunity to study the interrelatedness of these events.

## The Learning Objectives

There are a few objectives for the curriculum material in the program taht are addressed in the later modules. On completion of the course

* The student will be able to <span style="color:cornflowerblue;">**do proper inquiries into climate related events**</span>  and processes using public domain information.
* The student will have gained understanding of <span style="color:cornflowerblue;">**interrelatedness and ecological processes and events**</span> in a local geographic region.
* The student will have gained understanding of <span style="color:cornflowerblue;">**impact of global climate change on local ecological processes and events**</span> .
* The student will have <span style="color:cornflowerblue;">**gained skills in critical thinking**</span> to write a properly reasoned research plan and execute a valid research project.
* The student will be able to <span style="color:cornflowerblue;">**structure a compelling quality report**</span> addressing the information needs of its target audiences to report on the results of the inquiry and effect change in the readers knowledge and understanding of the subject matter.
* The student will have <span style="color:cornflowerblue;">**gained understanding and skills in remote sensing**</span> and the skills to process data and information that will be applicable and of relevance to climate change research, fundamental research and (public) policy definition.  
* The student will have been <span style="color:cornflowerblue;">**exposed to applications of satellite remote sensing**</span> and modeling in different areas of interest.
* The student will have <span style="color:cornflowerblue;">**gained remote sensing related IT skills**</span> (from basic programming to state-of-the-art AI techniques) that will be usable in public, private and acedemic work settings.
* The student will have studied and internalized examples of reports and use-cases to <span style="color:cornflowerblue;">**write master compelling publications**</span>.