# 000.002 The Vision Statement

The vision I have for this project is to enable citizen scientists and non-professional researchers to answer questions around climate change impact and become well-informed on the facts. I am convinced that only with a properly informed citizenry we will be able to adapt to the changes in our world that are upon us. In my opinion the stage where the world is at has passed the point where we can prevent the major and severe impact of climate change on our society. The policy makers and the world in general are simply not moving fast enough to prevent these changes from happening. The mitigation is no longer about preventing climate change from happening but buying ourselves time to work on adaptation to climate change.

This somber outlook means that we --everyone in a position to make any impact on society-- need to understand the processes and interconnecteness of what is happeing to our world as a consequence of climate change. Only if we now the processes and the levers we have at our disposal to make change or delay processes can we mitigate and adapt.

It is my hope that the educational material in this course will support anyone who wants an understanding of the processes around climate change and its potential impact on our society in finding answers to guide the learning process and prepare the research projects. As such I hope the education material will form the core of a repository of public citizen science projects. 

The intent is that the curriculum will become the foundation for a community building effort where students past-and-present will be able to help others in learning the material and support them with their efforts to  apply the acquired knowledge to their projects.

The intent is that the methods and techniques taught in this course are applicable anywhere in the world and that the tutorial and exercises are transferrable to a students local environment by simply re-configuring a set of parameters. For instance if a student is interested in fire-risk management the disaster - Fire Mgt module 001.016.01 then all that needs to be done is change the area of interest and that is it. Assuming that source data for the modules is available for the local region of interest the change in geo-spatial queries should 

## Target Audience

The intended audience for this material is firstly the citizen scientist community and non-professional research community like policy and decision makers in the public sector; irrespective of age and educational background. There are a number of official training programs available, such as the NASA DEVELOP program that aim to train new entrants in the field of satellite based remote sensing and doing environmental research supported with NASA data sets. However this program is geared towards younger participants; "The Leaders of Tomorrow" as the program calls its target audience. This is somewhat unfortunate since there are many capable resources out there that do not have access to these programs and the number of participants in these official programs is limited.

There vision I have with this course is that any person with an intermediate level of Python coding skills can pickup the curriculum material and become a competent researcher that can add value to the knowledge base concerning climate change and its potential impacts on our world. Ideally the material provides the foundation for any skilled Python coder to enter this field. The material in the curricullum is of varied levels of complexity. 

Those starting their journey will be able to simply find and present satellite imagery and datasets to tell compelling stories to advanced levels of coding where the material aims to performa state-of-art analysis using advanced AI and deep learning techniques. Students in the last category will be expert Python programmers looking to apply their computer science skills and knowledge to important work in the field of climate change monitoring and impact prediction and mitigation and adaptation policy development.

What is an added benefit of this program is that --given that the material is executable front-to-back-- those wanting to learn these advanced CS techniques will have sample material to study and learn the underlying computer science techniques. All parts of the curricullum will provide internal references to other modules or external references for additional training materials.
