# 004.001.02 Writing a Case Study 


## The process of writing the case study

A great resource for examples of case studies is the aforementioned EUMETSAT Case Study Library at [this location](https://www.eumetsat.int/case-studies).

### A sample project to write a case study.

1. Find an inreresting event in your environment that occured and you want to talk about in the public sphere.
2. Write the "catching headline" that should grap your audience's atttention.
3. Find relevant imagery and comparative data to illustrate you story.
4. The nature of your headline guides the types of information you need to find. If just letting people now of an event then current point in time information is enough, If you are making a comparison in your statement then you need at least two points in time or two locations to make the comparison. If you are claiming a trend you will need even more data points in time or along some relevant geopgraphic cline (eg. north-southe, altitude, mean lad surface temperature) etc.

In the EUMETSAT course the students came up with the follwing headlines:

* Siberian 2019-2020 wildfire seasons
* Day of Fire in the Amazon
* Transverse bands over the central interior of South Africa - 8 March 2021
* Cold advection over Central Europe
* Heavy to very heavy rainfall at Dibrugarh, Assam (India)
* Hydro Metrology indices variability impact on Agricultural Yields a case of Bilate River Basin using Geo informatics and earth observation system
* Impact Of The Atmospheric River On Heavy Rainfalls In Southern Ukraine
* On August 3-4, 2019, the weather in the Odessa region was determined by the "southern" cyclone. Extraordinary rain was observed on the Belgorod-Dniester MS - 121 mm in 6 hours
* Interested in Kamchatka Ecological Disaster
* Impact of vulcanism on marine ecosystems
* Hail
* Squall line
* Thick dust transport

So a quick analysis of these titles shows a difference in content and "catchi-ness" of the titles. Some of the lack any context and provide no reason why the intended audience should read the case-study publication. While the purpose of the case-study might be very scientific and not very relevant to peoples's daily lives the material should still convey the relevance to the potential audience. Even those that place the work in space and time not all of them provide a relevance to the reader. While you may find it compelling to do the research and the results might be very important, only if a nd when your results are read is the research 
successful. Remember; research is done to support decision support processes and if no connection to "the bigger picture" is given it misses the mark. No reader will be forced to read your work!

If we lok at some of the case-studies accepted in the library we see the following titles: (note there are almost 1100 case studies inthe library).
 * **Monsoon floods in Pakistan - Since the beginning of June, Pakistan has seen major flooding associated with the 2022 Monsoon.**
 This title and sub-title state an event and the iamgery provides point in time illustration of the scale of the calamity.
  
 * **Violent thunderstorms struck Corsica and parts of Italy - Violent thunderstorms struck Corsica and parts of Italy on 18 August 2022.**
 Again an event case-study but its title-subtitle lack relevance and maybe the inlusion of damage levels would have made hte work more compelling to the readers.
  
 * **Marine heatwave intensification threatens coral reef health - The past four decades experienced a dramatic increase in number and intensity of marine heatwave episodes. These episodes of persistent anomalously warm ocean temperatures pose a serious threat to the health of marine ecosystems around the globe.**
 This is a trending use case with time line charts and visual extend comparisons. It has a compelling impact statement.

* **Ocean observations from space confirm disruption of Earth's energy balance - Space observations show that the Earth's oceans store massive amounts of heat. Since 2002, the ocean has absorbed almost the same amount of energy as half a million nuclear power plants would produce over 20 years.**
This also is a comparison case-study with a descriptive comparison but it lacks a (clear) statement of consequences to the reader.

* **Deoxygenation impacts marine life in the Benguela - The die off of large phytoplankton blooms can lead to deoxygenation in the coastal ocean, and have severe impacts on marine life. Ocean colour data can monitor such blooms.**
Description of a point in time event with a clear statement of negative conesquences of the occurence of the event.
* **Antarctic sea ice at a long-term minimum - The Antarctic ice is completing the seasonal melting phase, following the Antarctic summer. The extent of the sea ice at the end of February 2022 is the lowest in the last 44 years - the period when satellites have been used to monitor the ice.**
A clear trend discussing case-study that builds on the "common knowledge assumtion that the dispearence of arctic sea ice is bad". Note that some readers might look at the title and say: "...so what...".
* **Heatwaves across Western Europe - Extremely high and persistent temperatures across west Europe and UK led to widespread heatwaves and wildfire outbreaks in mid-July 2022.**
Another PIT event description that clearly states region, event and consequences. This particular case study "merely" states what was observed and how the satellite imagery was correlated to weather charts. That is all -- no futher analysis or consequences discussed.

The type of analysis will also guide the outline of the case-study. If it conerns a point-in-time (abbrev PIT) case study then the material will be "simply" supportive to illustrate the event. The material should however leave the reader with something extra to learn. So one could explain "why certain satellites or instruments were used". Importantly the intent shouhld be to teach and enable the reader so explain how to read the imagery and charts to understand how the conclusions were reached. In case of the PIT event how it illustrates the presentation of the event. 

Note that each paragraph provides a new topic of discussion or understanding. It would be nice to guide the reader with citations to other supporting publications for that paragraph. Either the paragraph is personal interpretation (based on data or other information) or it restates the information as intepreted by others inwhich case a reference to that source material is warranted.

For example:

<div style="width:75%;margin: auto;margin-left:30px;margin-bottom:30px;color:cornflowerblue;font-style:italic;font-family:serif">Concurrent with the past century's persistent warming of global oceans, these kind of heatwaves (periods of extreme regional ocean warming) have become more frequent and more extreme ( <a style="text-decoration:underline" href="http://localhost">Laufkötter et al., 2020</a>). Marine heatwaves occur in many areas around the world, from the Pacific Ocean to the Atlantic Ocean to the Mediterranean Sea. They threaten marine biodiversity and its ecosystems (<a style="text-decoration:underline" href="http://localhost">Smale et al., 2019)</a>.</div>

making such constant references improves the scientific integrity of the work. Then a short chapter on methodology and one on results. And a final discussion of the relevance of the work. For the geo-spatial domain a listing of source data is beneficial and then close off with the citations.


## Writing a Scientific Report


