# 001.005 The Introduction - Remote Sensing Technology

The satellites and remote sensing instruments are the one of the two core data sources available to address questions related to climate change risk management, adaptation and mitigation.

Over the course of many decades specific questions of environmental and polution related nature have driven the development of satellite based remote sensing. 

Now for the laymen the terms NASA mission, satellite and sometimes instrument are used interchangeably but if we want to look for data to support our studies we need to be more careful how we use these terms. A short illustrative story might help clarify terms...

<div style="width:75%;margin: auto;margin-left:30px;margin-bottom:30px;color:cornflowerblue;font-style:italic;font-family:serif">
    
... There are (governmental) agencies that have the resources to put satellites into space. These spacecraft are flown to support the collection of data to support research questions and interpretations as we discussed in [chapter 00.004](./220927.001.004%20The%20Introduction%20-%20The%20Research%20Process.md) earlier.

Now we need to understand that the satellite is simply the carrier of the instrumentation that does the actual measuring of some property of interest. This can be something about the Earth, something about space or atmospheric chemistry, something meteorological phenomena or somply making pictures in different wavelengths of the Earth.

So to put these three things together: in order for science to get data it's scientists negotiate with the space agency to establish a mission (administrative project) to develope a satellite that will carry one or several instruments to make measurements of phenomena of interest.
</div>

Sometimes the same type of instrument is flown on multiple different satellites, sometimes at the same time and in tandem to produce specific data points. 

What this means is that instruments are designed to measure specific type of phenomena and sometimes the same phenomenon is measured by different instruments on different satellites. These instrument types might carry over from one mission to the next where a new mission might carry instruments that provide improved measurements of the same phenomenon.

Something like this happens for instance in the LANDSAT program that has flown and is operating multiple missions (LANDSAT-7/8/9 mission currently) and each of these missions operates a single satellite that has mostly the same type of instruments. In the LANDSAT case it concerns multi-spectral imaging intruments that make reflection measurement of light by the Earth in different spectral bands. The instrument types have improved from one mission to the next but provide data about the same phenomena. Sometimes additional new instruments are flow on the satellite and this would then be an extension in the mission statement for the specific mission.

Why is this important? Because the information we try to glean from the data is produced by instruments on satellites and the agencies store the datasets based on satellite and instruments and if an instrument was flow in only one mission we need to know its "name" to find its measurements.

## Derived Information

While we have our measurement source data there is also input to the decision process that is the outcome from models and simulation runs. This type of information is of a different nature than the "indisputable facts and measurements" if it is known that the instruments have been properly calibrated and operate within operational specifications.

This type of information can only come from actual models or from htird party interpretations of underlying data points (or other information). Many datasets function like proxies for real-world processes and typically calculate indices from the source data points. A well-known example of such an index is the NDVI (acron Normalized difference vegetation index) which "represents" the health of a plant and is calculated from the light absortion in different spectral ranges. In this case: 

```
                                         Near Infrared absorption - RED absorption
Normalized difference vegetation index = -----------------------------------------
                                         Near Infrared absorption + RED absorption
```  

So in this case two spectral band absorptions are combined to derive an index. The health of the plants (it physiological state) is refleced in the value of the NDVI index for the plant. In the remote sensing domain there exist myrads of such indices all across the various application areas. 
