# 001.006 The Introduction - Software Development Process

The topic of software development and analysis applictions addresses the different parts of software solution support for data collection, processing and results presentation using software.

Because not everyone will be familiar with the general data science pipeline this chapter provides aample introductory information about the design and build process of data science software applications.

The data science pipeline consists of a number of main stages and each will be address in detail and supported with woring software code. 

The supporting software will be provided in the Python language and the code will be either standard Python modules or the code will be wriiten nd executed in the form of Jupyter Lab notebook files. The former is the standard form of executable software component used to build applications. The latter is a now well known and practiced format that consist of written documents intersperced with executable code providing what are called literal or interactive coding methods. 

The Jupyter Notebooks that are the deliverables of this second method are a very different manner of constructing software solutions than the traditional application development methods.

The outline for the software development process will be along the following lines:

* we address the manner by which the user or the code gets access to the dataset repositories from where the data can be retrieved. This concerns account creation and examples of how to retrieve the data to the local machine or to online data stores.
* then we address the various means by which the data can be downloaded. This concerns manual downloads of files and datasets from the sourcing agencies, downloading datasets using third party tools and libraries and finally creating proprietary download tools to interact programmatically with the providers systems.

Once we have the datasets at our disposal we will address the various waysin which we can cobine and process the datasets to support the locality for which we aim to provide data and interpret the datasets and anaysis.

As part of this we will discuss the libraries we can use to create the custom datasets and the methods and approaches we can take.

> NOTE: it is interesting to know that the entire documentation and training material for the PNEOM course is a Jupyter Lab Notebook that was recast as a dynamic Jupyter Book that can be executed or printed in various formats.

The software development process is part of the overall research process that was described in [chapter 001.004](./220927.001.004%20The%20Introduction%20-%20The%20Research%20Process.md) since much of the "work that is done in the project" is done using software; either self-created or in the form of software libraries. In this chapter on the software develompent process we will dive deeper into the **how** of doing the coding in both the standard Python approach as well as the Jupyter Notebook approach.

While a standard software developer might be more likely to have started working in the normal Python applicatino programming world we will begin our journey in the Jupyter Notebook world. This code development in Jupyter Notebooks is nowadays really the more common way for doing data science and creating "communication applications". As mentioned earlier 


<div style="width:75%;margin: auto;margin-left:30px;margin-bottom:30px;color:cornflowerblue;font-style:italic;font-family:serif">    
"...doing a (scientific) research project is only completed once the result are communicated to the target audience and the results are accepted as emerging from properly conducted research.."
</div>

As long as the results are not communicated to the taget audience the work is not done and "scientific research" was not conducted. Research does not exist in a vacuum.

## Introduction to the Jupyter Notebook

The Jupyter Notebook is a file format that looks like an "executable word document"; it shows high quality rendered text interspersed with cells that can be executed. The code in these cells in our case are written in the Python programming language but the Jupyter Notebook can support "kernels" that can provide support for many different computer languages such as: R, Julia, C++, Haskell etc.

The befit of using the Python Kernet based Notebooks is that much of the code we will write for the code cells can be reused if we wanted to support standard code development in Python.

### A sample of a LANDSAT image visualization

In this introductory chapter to software development using Jupyter Notebooks we'll illustrate how to visualize a simple regional visualization of a LANDSAT image using the MODIS instrument.


