# 006.001 The Software Development Process

As was mentioned in the introduction chapter about this module, the setup of accounts and learning to access the various DAAC (acron. Distributed Data Access Centers) is an important step to getting to the NASA mission datasets.

The NASA EarthData program was set up to provide a single-account access method that enables a user with a single account to access a vast amount of NASA mission data that is distributed across many different agencies and institutions.

Typically these institutions collect and maintain datsets that are relevant for their topics of study. They perform the role of a DAAC for these datasets. This means that certain datasets are available from many different DAACs and some are only available from a particular institution DAAC.

For instance LANDSAT mission files can be found in many DAACs but inSAR (acron. interfero Synthetic Aperture Radar data file) might be accessed at only one or two institutions like: ASF and NICE...

This illustrates the importance of knowing which kinds of measurements are relevant for you research question, which instruments recorded the data and on which satellites these instruments were flown. Only then can we know where to look for the datasets pertaining to the time frameand the geographic areas of interest.

The various model results (like climate models or other domain models) are typically stored by other types of institutions like universities or rresearch organizations. Sometimes these organizations participate in the same EarthData single-sign-on (abbrev. SSO) program but more often we need to establish separate accounts with these organizations.

## Account management

## Dataset Retrieval

### Manual Download

### Third Party Tools and Libraries

### Proprietary Download Software

## Geographic Dataset Processing

The charcteristic of most remote sensing files and model results in this space is that the information pertains to specific locations on the globe. The information is what is called geo-spatial information.

There is a great deal to discuss about the interpretation and processing of geospatial data but for now we'll leave the details alone and address how we can extract data points for only our region of interest. This is an important preprocessing step because typically the datasets and model results can be extremely large. 

It is not uncommon for a single file to be 100's of megabytes large and sometimes dozens of such files are needed to analyze changes over time. Working with the original data files would require prohibitively large computing resources (RAM) and very long processing times.

The solution to this problem would be to sub-set the information and restrict it to the area of interest. This is one of the early methods we will learn in our programming exercises.

## Dataset Merging and Analysis

Typically the the analysis concerns the investigation of correlations and possible causations between events and processes in the area of study. For this we need to collect source data (and information from prior research). In a geo-spatial inquiry this often involves creating overlays of these different datasets.

## Analysis Visualization

## Research Results Publication
