# 001.004 The Introduction - The Research Process

Now starting the journey into studying the application of satellite remote sensing and climate change information is not trivial. While the satellites and climate models literally produce penta-bytes of information every day it is becomming quite the challange to find the information taht might be relevant to answer the questions at hand.

To provide some framework by which we can address the challenge of finding the information we could use I will persent a short  outline of **why we are doing this work in the first place**. This will enable us to look for information in the right places.

The thing to start with is that "..all research is done so that ultimately policy can be made to improve the common good of man-kind..." This is a very convoluted way of saying that **nothing is done in a vacuum** and ultimately that all the research and anlysis **should** improve the state of the world (or parts of it).

So if we begin with the final step we can state that.

> The policy makers _need information_ to support the decision process to establish well-balanced policies that maintain society as best as possible.

Now the question is "What is information and where does it come from?". While information and data are used interchangeable in this course (as elsewhere) we maintain a distiction between the two. Basically information is the result of interpretation of data. So data by itself is not information; it is the input to some analysis process which results in information. Now it is also possible that information serves (is needed for) this interpretation process.

> The information needed by policy makers and researchers is a result of (models based on) hypothesis about processes.

So when a at various levels of abstraction researchers build models that to the best of their current understanding of a process at hand describes the input and output within levels of confidence. So a climate model might be based on atmospheric models describing meteorological and atmospheric chemistry processes. These models themselves might be based on physics models. 

Now what is the important point to learn from this is that these models are based on input and ulimately these input parameters are based on physical measurements or data points. So if a researcher aims to build a model and certain input paramters are not available the team needs to resort to actual measurements. These measurements are captured in datapoints which are collected in data sets.11

> The information needed by policy makers and researchers is a ultimately the result of interpreting data points or measurements.

In the context of satellite remote sensing the instruments on the spacecrafts performm the measurements and produce the data. So based on the type of data needed the researcher can choose from a set of possible inflight instruments which data sets to use for the research question and model at hand. As we will see in chapter 001.005 and later in part 005 there are a great number of satellites and instruments orbiting the globe and producing these datasets. Finding the right information is guided by the hypothesis, models and interpretation that the researcher makes to produce information for the next step in teh policy making chain.


## Standard classification of research projects

The EUMETSAT case study library provides an interestin two dimensional grid for clasificarion of case-studies. On the one hande there are the "**products**" that are produced by the agency and these are typically data-products of ifferent levels of processing (L1, L2, L3 and L4) and on the other axis there are "**features**" which are the events of properties of the real-world systems.

In the context of the PNEOM curriculum these features are properties, charcteristics of the domains of interest and the details of the processes related to the events and processes. These case studies are the results of the research. Now what we want is that these case-studies are provided with required meta-data:

* **the time of research**:  this is when the study was performed
* **the title of the case study**: a short "catchy" description of what was investigated.
* **the sub-title of the case study**: state the relevance of the work performed in up to three short sentences.
* **the abstract of the work**: describe method and resoures used an outcome of the work.
* **the time of the events**: this is the time period over which we studied the data
* **the geo-spatial extend**: these are the geographic areas of the study
* **the satellites**: which satellites produced the information
* **the instruments**: exactly which instruments were used to measure the information
* **the data products and spectral bands**: the detailed desccription of the data products and measurements properties.
* **the features and products**; this will place the work in context with others and allows it to be found. Note this should be ontology based.

The the conten tof the case-study is presented.

It is important to understand the reasons and objectives for doing the case-study. There can be many (hidden) reasons for performing a case-study. The presentation gives a list of sometimes not so obvioius reasons like: devoloping a feel for the data, build a prototype, develop training material, comparisons of technology.

The main parts of the case study:

* **Ideation for the project**. How can we use the imagery to illustrate the events
* **Data exploration**. Make an inventory of data that could beused for telling the story and --in case of scientific studies-- shed light on the hypothesis of the study.
* **Expert collaboration**. Reach out to experts, peers and others to discuss the intended project.
* **Revision of the project plan**. Converse with experts to discuss the data/results/deliverables.
* **Web publication**. The story is intended to reach a broad or specific audience.


## The process of writing the case study

A great resource for examples of case studies is the aforementioned EUMETSAT Case Study Library at [this location](https://www.eumetsat.int/case-studies).

### A sample project to write a case study.

1. Find an inreresting event in your environment that occured and you want to talk about in the public sphere.
2. Write the "catching headline" that should grap your audience's atttention.
3. Find relevant imagery and comparative data to illustrate you story.
4. The nature of your headline guides the types of information you need to find. If just letting people now of an event then current point in time information is enough, If you are making a comparison in your statement then you need at least two points in time or two locations to make the comparison. If you are claiming a trend you will need even more data points in time or along some relevant geopgraphic cline (eg. north-southe, altitude, mean lad surface temperature) etc.

In the EUMETSAT course the students came up with the follwing headlines:

* Siberian 2019-2020 wildfire seasons
* Day of Fire in the Amazon
* Transverse bands over the central interior of South Africa - 8 March 2021
* Cold advection over Central Europe
* Heavy to very heavy rainfall at Dibrugarh, Assam (India)
* Hydro Metrology indices variability impact on Agricultural Yields a case of Bilate River Basin using Geo informatics and earth observation system
* Impact Of The Atmospheric River On Heavy Rainfalls In Southern Ukraine
* On August 3-4, 2019, the weather in the Odessa region was determined by the "southern" cyclone. Extraordinary rain was observed on the Belgorod-Dniester MS - 121 mm in 6 hours
* Interested in Kamchatka Ecological Disaster
* Impact of vulcanism on marine ecosystems
* Hail
* Squall line
* Thick dust transport

So a quick analysis of these titles shows a difference in content and "catchi-ness" of the titles. Some of the lack any context and provide no reason why the intended audience should read the case-study publication. While the purpose of the case-study might be very scientific and not very relevant to peoples's daily lives the material should still convey the relevance to the potential audience. Even those that place the work in space and time not all of them provide a relevance to the reader. While you may find it compelling to do the research and the results might be very important, only if a nd when your results are read is the research 
successful. Remember; research is done to support decision support processes and if no connection to "the bigger picture" is given it misses the mark. No reader will be forced to read your work!

If we lok at some of the case-studies accepted in the library we see the following titles: (note there are almost 1100 case studies inthe library).
 * **Monsoon floods in Pakistan - Since the beginning of June, Pakistan has seen major flooding associated with the 2022 Monsoon.**
 This title and sub-title state an event and the iamgery provides point in time illustration of the scale of the calamity.
  
 * **Violent thunderstorms struck Corsica and parts of Italy - Violent thunderstorms struck Corsica and parts of Italy on 18 August 2022.**
 Again an event case-study but its title-subtitle lack relevance and maybe the inlusion of damage levels would have made hte work more compelling to the readers.
  
 * **Marine heatwave intensification threatens coral reef health - The past four decades experienced a dramatic increase in number and intensity of marine heatwave episodes. These episodes of persistent anomalously warm ocean temperatures pose a serious threat to the health of marine ecosystems around the globe.**
 This is a trending use case with time line charts and visual extend comparisons. It has a compelling impact statement.

* **Ocean observations from space confirm disruption of Earth's energy balance - Space observations show that the Earth's oceans store massive amounts of heat. Since 2002, the ocean has absorbed almost the same amount of energy as half a million nuclear power plants would produce over 20 years.**
This also is a comparison case-study with a descriptive comparison but it lacks a (clear) statement of consequences to the reader.

* **Deoxygenation impacts marine life in the Benguela - The die off of large phytoplankton blooms can lead to deoxygenation in the coastal ocean, and have severe impacts on marine life. Ocean colour data can monitor such blooms.**
Description of a point in time event with a clear statement of negative conesquences of the occurence of the event.
* **Antarctic sea ice at a long-term minimum - The Antarctic ice is completing the seasonal melting phase, following the Antarctic summer. The extent of the sea ice at the end of February 2022 is the lowest in the last 44 years - the period when satellites have been used to monitor the ice.**
A clear trend discussing case-study that builds on the "common knowledge assumtion that the dispearence of arctic sea ice is bad". Note that some readers might look at the title and say: "...so what...".
* **Heatwaves across Western Europe - Extremely high and persistent temperatures across west Europe and UK led to widespread heatwaves and wildfire outbreaks in mid-July 2022.**
Another PIT event description that clearly states region, event and consequences. This particular case study "merely" states what was observed and how the satellite imagery was correlated to weather charts. That is all -- no futher analysis or consequences discussed.

The type of analysis will also guide the outline of the case-study. If it conerns a point-in-time (abbrev PIT) case study then the material will be "simply" supportive to illustrate the event. The material should however leave the reader with something extra to learn. So one could explain "why certain satellites or instruments were used". Importantly the intent shouhld be to teach and enable the reader so explain how to read the imagery and charts to understand how the conclusions were reached. In case of the PIT event how it illustrates the presentation of the event. 

Note that each paragraph provides a new topic of discussion or understanding. It would be nice to guide the reader with citations to other supporting publications for that paragraph. Either the paragraph is personal interpretation (based on data or other information) or it restates the information as intepreted by others inwhich case a reference to that source material is warranted.

For example:

<div style="width:75%;margin: auto;margin-left:30px;margin-bottom:30px;color:cornflowerblue;font-style:italic;font-family:serif">Concurrent with the past century's persistent warming of global oceans, these kind of heatwaves (periods of extreme regional ocean warming) have become more frequent and more extreme ( <a style="text-decoration:underline" href="http://localhost">Laufkötter et al., 2020</a>). Marine heatwaves occur in many areas around the world, from the Pacific Ocean to the Atlantic Ocean to the Mediterranean Sea. They threaten marine biodiversity and its ecosystems (<a style="text-decoration:underline" href="http://localhost">Smale et al., 2019)</a>.</div>

making such constant references improves the scientific integrity of the work. Then a short chapter on methodology and one on results. And a final discussion of the relevance of the work. For the geo-spatial domain a listing of source data is beneficial and then close off with the citations.

## The Research Process


### Positing Topic of Interest

The executionof research start with the formulation of an hypothesis. This is the case for any type of research that we do, even for desriptive work because there we might have to show how we are certain that the event occurred. It is the hypothesis that drives the need for corroborating data and information.

Once we have our working hypothesis we will start the collection of data from datasets and second hand information from supporting literature. This step will guide us to looking for data sources from where we can extract data and information as **we think is** needed. Note that we are still working under an hypothesis and are not **sure** that we are right to state our claim of the event or processes we wat to discuss.
### Data Inventory and Gathering

The collection of information can be as simple as going to some geo-spatial information browser and selecting and download the data and information. We can put the imagery together and that's it.

Sometimes the pre-processing step is much more involved and will require writing Python code to manipulate the data points (measurements) to optimze the extraction of information from the data points. For instance normalizing spectral band information around a local region so there is more resolution in the measurements for that localized dataset.

* Where can we find information? online data browsers and download repositories
* Data preprocessing: 
  * extraction of localized data points 
  * normalization of data
  * combination and merging of data layers
  * 

### The type of analysis

We can research only a few different types of questions. These are described by the type of questions we are looking to answer.

* **descriptive** - addresses a situation where we simply want to illustrate that a specific event or situation exists or occurred. This is a point in time study. 
* **classification** - addresses that case where we want to assign categories to objects in the imagery or geospaial data sets.
* **change detection** - addresses the detection of a change in a situation. It requires two points in time to be compared. 
* **trend detection** - addresses detection of change persistent over a longer period. The time scope of the study determines the duration over which the trend is detected. 
* **time-series analysis** - addresses detection of periodicity in process or events. The result is a model of the trend, periodicity and irregular nature of the observed data. 

### The presentation of the results

The development of a use-case: (see [EUMETSAT course on building case studies in technology section](https://training.eumetsat.int/course/view.php?id=397). A very poor presentation so far.

Can take many different forms; from a twitter post to a full-blown scientific study. 
