# 004.001.01 Writing a use-case or publication

This module will address a process for writing about the results of your research project. In the larger scheme of things the purpose of doing research is to further the body of knowledge about a certain domain. The final step of research is **communication**.

## Why do we need to write our report?

If we don't commnicate the results of our research or study then it might as well haven't been done. Now there is nothing wrong with satisfying one personal curiosity about a certain domain of study but this would not be called research in the scientific context. It is unfortunate that many works done by citizen scientists are not exposed to larger community or even the "acedemic community". All too often a local citizzen scientist has been quietly "doing their thing in their local environment" when the results and information they gathered is af high impotance to understanding the parger picture as research by academia.

It would be great therefor that even citizen scientists --if at all possible-- organize and perform their work in such a manner that the information collected will (eventually) serve a greated good. Dor this to happen their work must meet certain standards and it needs to be findable by others interested in similar topics.

The demands for different types of investigations are different. The write-up of a an article about a local event or change in a local newspaper has quite different demands on scientific rigor than a proper publication in a scientific peer-reviewed journal. 

However the "nature" of the publication is the same;"...report on findings of some investigation done regarding some event of process to a (known) audience that might be interested in the results...". This means that the author of the work needs to meet some hurdles with respect to getting the target audience to be compelled to read the findings. The target audience has limited time and resources and the author needs to capture the interest of the reader by providing a compelling title that conveys to the reader that the content is relevant to his or her situation. If the title and abstract don't capture the audience's eye the results will not be read and the work was done in vane.

## Write a compelling report

So what are some hints to write a compelling article that catches the reader's attention. It all begins with the title, sub title and then the summary paragraph. This is the approach taken when writing journalistic articles seen in news papers where the catching the reader's eye is of paramount importance.

* The title should speak to something that speaks to the reader's emotion
* The subtitle should explain relevance to the reader
* The summary TL;DR; paragraph should intice the reader to search for additional information.

At this point the reader should be hooked into reading the report and now the process starts of guiding the reader through a properly constructed argumenation that explains the claims from the title and subtitle.

In the context of our program there are some hooks we can use to catch the reader's attention. In the title we should have:

* **regional context**: is the reported information relevant to the user from a locality / interest point of view**"
* **time-frame**: is the content historic information or current to indicate if there is a current affairs topic that conveys background understanding or ugency to the user.

Then the sub-title lines should have: **statement of why the content is relevant** and the TL;DR; paragraph should give a very brief outline and summary of the material.

## Ensure a proper reasoned conclusion

No publication will be accepted if the reasoning process that guides the reader from the hypotesis or topic through the gathered and interpreted information to the conclusion is flawed. The publication needs to make a proper argument why the results are valid and worthy of the reader's attention. To ensure that the work --even a local newspaper article-- meets such requirements the author should use a proper writing process that "connects the dots from start to finish".

## Contribute to the larger scientific body of knowledge

Something that is more relevant

## Writing a Use-case Report


## Writing a Scientific Report


