# 001.011 The Introduction - Water resource management domain

Water resource managementis concerned with the availability of fresh water for agricultural and consumption. It is concerned with the availability of fresh water for use in practices. 

This means that the water management domain is deeply aligned with the **water cycle** and how water moves through the atmosphere and through the landscape in natural well-regulated fashion. Localized disturbances of these natural regulated processes could result in flood events (which are addressed in  [chapter 001.016 on flood management](./220927.001.016.02%20The%20Introduction%20%20Disaster%20-%20Flood%20mgt%20domain.md)).

The water cycle is the model that describes how fresh water runs through the various flows on land and in rivers from mountains and lower elevation landscapes to the seas and how at ay point in this phase it might evaporate and form clouds from which it will fall down as rain. Water management is concerned with the monitoring and study of every stage of this perpetual cycle and how at every stage it is available to natural processes and agricultural process for use. 

**No life exists without access to fress water**

To be aware of any disturbances in the hydrological cycle we need to understand very well how this cycle functions and what the natural "volumes" are at any stage in the hydrological cycle.

While we cannot measure such quantities in real-life the instrumentation on the various satellites can measure proxies for these quantities in the form of water-vapor per unit of atmosphere, the soil moisture levels in the soil etc. The instruments in such missions are design to measure such phenomena continuously and with high precision.

Another aspect of water management is measuring how much of the water is evaporating at different points in the hydrological cycle. This will give us a proxy for the availability of fresh water in later stages of the hydro-cycle where other processes depend on the availability of the water. These are very important paramters for assessing the potential for regional droughts and things like wildfire risks.

Just as important is the management and monitoring of river and lakes where the water is collected during certain times of the year as part of the hydrological cycle. To little or too much water in such water "erservoirs" can have disastrous consequences for people and ecosystems.

Finally monitoring the water quality is another important aspect of water management because if the water is unusable for the intended purposes it is practically not-available to the systemsm that depend on it.

For all such situations satellite instruments have been designed and deployed to measure and monitor the state of the hydrological cycle. In the [module 011.001 on water resource management](./220927.001.011%20The%20Introduction%20-%20Water%20resource%20management%20domain.md) we will see many applications of remote sensing for water management pruposes.
